The last thing we have to consider is cascading.
So with the help of boosting we can make the algorithm quite fast.
But again we can pose the question that can we do even better.
And the answer is yes because we know that most of the image region is known face regions.
So for example if we consider this image there are four faces but most of the image doesn't contain
faces at all.
OK so this is why we can come to the conclusion that most of the major regions are known face regions.
So it is a better idea to have a simple method to check if a window is not a face region.
So instead of posing a question whether the given region contains a face we do the opposite.
We check if a window is not a face region.
If it is not then we can discard it in a single shot.
OK so we don't want to process unnecessary regions.
We would like to focus on regions where there can be a face instead.
So this is why we use the cascade classifier concept because we know that most of the M.H. region is
known face regions.
So instead of applying all the 6000 features for example we use the most relevant ones in the first
iteration.
So the first stage is contain very less features.
For example the first stage contains just a single feature.
The second stage contains 10 features then 15 features and 50 features.
You may pose the question that how to find the most relevant features.
So here we have been talking about that in the first stage we have to use just a single feature.
How to decide what features to include and basically we can use the result of the boosting algorithm
because the boosting has already found the best features.
The best feature is going to be that Ajax classifier with the highest Alpha perimeter.
OK so the Ajax class the failure rate higher for values are the relevant features.
OK so we'll just have to use this approach.
If the window doesn't contain the most relevant features so features with the highest Alpha paramita
as we can consider the next region on the image because we came to the conclusion that the given region
doesn't contain a human face.
So it is something like a decision tree.
We have the given features.
The first feature is the most important feature.
The second feature is the second important feature.
The third important feature and so on and we pose the question that is that feature present in the sub
window.
If no then it is not a phase.
If yes then we check the second feature.
If it is present then we check the search feature.
Anyways we come to the conclusion that it is not a phase and if all the relevant features are present
in the window then we can come to the conclusion that it is a human face.
Basically this is what we have been discussing at the beginning.
That for example this window doesn't contain the relevant features.
The feature for the eyebrows the feature for the eyes the feature for the nose the feature for the lips.
So because this window doesn't contain any of these features we can come to the conclusion that OK we
don't have to check all the other features because the most relevant features are missing so we can't
consider the next sub window.
OK and when we have this situation the algorithm can come to the conclusion that all the relevant features
are included within this region.
So within this sub window hands we can say with high probability that it is a phase.
So all the relevant Haar features are included for the left eye right eye eyebrows nose lips and so
on.
So it is a human face.
So this is how old Jones algorithm works under the hood.
Thanks for watching.